Прогнозирование нагрузки на каждый час суток с помощью PatchTST и Temporal Fusion Transformers: сравнительный системный анализ с тра-диционными методами бустинга (CatBoost) и нейросетевыми моделями на базе N-HiTS
Abstract. The article describes a solution to the problem of selecting the best model for pre-dicting electricity consumption for each hour of the next day under conditions of limited infor-mation using modern methods of machine and deep learning: CatBoost, Temporal Fusion Trans-former (TFT), PatchTST, N-HiTS. Within the framework of each of the methods under consid-eration, new high-quality and adequate mathematical models for predicting electricity consump-tion have been developed. An important mathematical result is that the solution to the problem of forecasting electricity consumption for energy conservation management at an enterprise is reduced to a scientifically substantiated selection of a single best model. This is important from the point of view of both the theoretical study of algorithms for modern machine and deep learning models, and their practical application, given the growing volume of data. The task is significant for the purposes of optimizing electricity consumption at the enterprise and in the re-gion as a whole. As a result of the theoretical analysis and computational experiment, an im-portant practical conclusion was obtained about the applicability of the CatBoost model for solv-ing problems of optimizing energy consumption using real data of an energy company. All con-clusions reached in the article are supported by the results of statistical tests. 
